**Genetic-determinants-of-acute-coronary-artery-disease in Chinese and European populations 
(Edris et al, GIGASCIENCE 2026)**

This repository outlines the design of statistical analyses required to obtain the results presented in Concordance of genetic determinants of acute coronary artery disease between European and Chinese populations (Edris et al, GIGASCIENCE 2026). The aims of this study were to: (i) compare the associations of individual SNPs for acute CAD discovered in European ancestry populations in CARDIOGRAMplusC4D with acute CAD cases in Chinese; (ii) assess the concordance of associations of acute CAD SNPs discovered in Europeans for acute CAD, chronic IHD, non-IHD cardiac conditions and stroke types using a genetic score combining such European ancestry SNPs for CAD (GS-CAD) in a nested case-control studies in Chinese individuals in CKB; (iii) and compare associations of fifths of GS-CAD scores with levels of LDL-C, systolic blood pressure (SBP), body mass index (BMI) and plasma proteomics in controls with GWAS data in CKB. 
This codes clarifies all the steps required to undertake analyses required for all three aims, and outputs the results presented in the paper per aim.

Prerequisites include access to the relevant CKB data files and an R program (the script installs the necessary libraries). The script can be run directly using Rscript if the relevant data files are available.

Expected input format
The input files are China Kadoorie biobank database files, the expected formats/column names align with the variable names available on the china kadoorie biobank showcase available at 
https://www.ckbiobank.org/datashowcase/18.01/showcase_contents.html 
Briefly, the script requires access to a CKB questionnaire data file, CKB data linkage file, CKB endpoints file, and CKB proteomics data files
CKB data access can be obtained for bona fide researchers by application https://www.ckbiobank.org/data-access/data-access-procedures 




The main results are provided in data form and the results are also presented in the accompanying manuscript in the form of tables and figures. Figure 1: Flow diagram of study design and numbers of participants in genetic analyses of CAD SNPs with: (A) Major Coronary Events and chronic IHD, (B) other CVD, (C) CVD risk factors, (D) PheWAS with 117 diseases and (E) plasma proteomics in Chinese adults. Figure 2: Odds ratio (OR) and 95% CI of (A) major coronary events in Chinese for 224 individual CAD SNPs discovered in Europe; and (B) Odds ratio (OR) and 95% CI of major coronary events in Chinese for a subset of 25 SNPs that were replicated in Chinese. Figure 3: Odds ratios (OR) and (95%CI) of (A) major coronary events, (B) myocardial infarction or (C) chronic IHD in Chinese for fifths of a genetic score (GS-CAD) for 224 CAD SNPs discovered in Europeans. Figure 4: Odds ratios (OR) and (95%CI) of CAD, stroke, and other vascular diseases in Chinese for a 1 SD higher genetic score for 224 CAD SNPs discovered in Europeans. Figure 5: Associations of fifths of a genetic score for 224 CAD SNPs discovered in Europeans with blood pressure, body mass index and LDL-cholesterol in Chinese. Values shown are line plots for 1 SD higher levels of systolic blood pressure (SBP), diastolic blood pressure (DBP), body mass index (BMI) and LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) versus mean standardized genetic score (GS-CAD) per quintile. The number of participants included in each quintile is is indicated below each data point. The summary results for the OR (95%CI) of major coronary events for 224 CAD SNPs in Chinese are shown the supplement.
